# Flowdock integration guide

## Getting started

***Screenshot from a Zendesk ticket showing fields, body, actions…***

<small>*An example of a full-fledged Flowdock integration. You can discuss Zendesk customer support tickets and even perform basic functions (such as assigning or closing tickets) without leaving Flowdock.*</small>

To get a running start, simply run the following command to get started with testing the API. **NOTE:** You need to have [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/installation/) and the [oauth2 gem](https://github.com/intridea/oauth2) installed.

```
> ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flowdock/flowdock-example-integration/master/flowdock-oauth.rb)"
```

Once you have everything set up, let's try sending a simple request. Use the example curl command generated by the script you ran or use the snippet below by replacing the token and flow name with ones that you generated in the step above.

```
> curl -i -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
"flow_token": "be299b91fffe8e4124986b9b5b44dfc6",
  "event": "activity",
  "author": {
    "name": "Marty",
    "avatar": "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3017123?v=3"
  },
  "title": "updated ticket",
  "external_thread_id": "1234567",
  "thread": {
    "title": "Polish the flux capacitor",
    "fields": [{ "label": "Dustiness", "value": "5 - severe" }],
    "body": "The flux capacitor has been in storage for more than 30 years and it needs to be spick and span for the re-launch.",
    "external_url": "https://example.com/projects/bttf/tickets/1234567",
    "status": {
      "color": "green",
      "value": "open"
    }
  }
}' https://api.flowdock.com/messages
```

This posts a [message](Messages) to the Flowdock API. Since it includes [thread](Threads) data, a new thread is created and the message is posted in the context of that thread.

***SMALL SCREENSHOT OF THE MESSAGE POSTED ABOVE***

In this example, the message describes an [activity](message-types#/activity) that took place in the third party service – a new ticket was created. The included thread data contains the current state (name, description, etc.) of the newly created ticket.

This brings up an important point when designing your integration: each message is related to some item in the third party service. What the item is depends on the service. With customer support systems, the item is most likely a support ticket. With version control, it can be a commit or pull request. Messages that are related to one item are grouped together as a thread in Flowdock, and the contents of the `thread` parameter should contain the latest state of the item. In other words, an item in the third party service is the same as a thread in Flowdock.

To post another message to the same thread, you simply need post another message with the same `external_thread_id`. It's a good principle to map those external IDs to the IDs of the items in your app. For example, GitHub uses issue or pull request numbers and Zendesk uses ticket IDs. They only need to be unique in the context of that source (project, repository, etc).

If we change the status field in what we posten above and POST it again.

```
    "status": {
      "color": "grey",
      "value": "closed"
    }
```

The data will update in real time and a message saying that the ticket was updated will be rendered.

***SCREENSHOT OF UPDATE***

## What does a great integration look like?

The best Flowdock integrations are with other work-related web apps. These third party apps send updates to Flowdock. A great integration with a project management tool will send updates when items are created, updated or commented on. For example, our Zendesk integration sends updates to Flowdock whenever a new customer support ticket is created, someone replies to a ticket or updates its status. Each new update can include both a message ("ticket was updated") and a new updated state for the ticket.

***ZENDESK SCREENSHOT with legend***

When presenting your app's different items in Flowdock as a thread, you can use these great features:

1. Title - Simple enough, this should be the name of the item in your app. For Zendesk, this is the subject line of the support ticket.
1. Icon - Each integration has it's own icon you can configure yourself via the [Developer applications](https://www.flowdock.com/oauth/applications) view.
1. Fields - All the simple properties. The Zendesk integration uses these to show the To, From and other fields of the support ticket. Project management tools send all the properties of a specific issue/ticket/story.
1. Body - This generally contains the most important content of the item, like an issue description. In some cases, this is not needed, such as when new replies and updates make up the most interesting content in Zendesk.
1. Status - A great way to highlight progress. It gives a quick and visible answer to questions like "Has this pull request been merged?" or "Has this support ticket been solved?". The status is shown visibly in the [team inbox](/help/team_inbox). You can even color-code the different states (e.g. blocked = red, solved = green).
1. [Actions](actions) - An amazing tool to make the integration bidirectional. You can define actions to allow users to complete tasks directly from Flowdock. Examples include "Assign to me", "Mark as solved", "Try to build this again" and "Merge pull request".

For detailed descriptions of these fields, check out the [threads documentation](threads).

When posting messages into threads, there are a couple of patterns you should follow. 

[Activity messages](message-types#/activity) should be used when an item in your app gets created, updated or deleted.

***SCREENSHOT OF ACTIVITY MESSAGE***

An activity message has a couple of unique features:

* The title should fit the format "Marty McFly **did something**". In other words, good titles are "updated ticket" or "merged pull request".
* If you like, you can include an icon. The icon should reflect the action that was taken.

If the update is related to a discussion or comment in your app, you should send a [discussion](message-types#/discussion) message.

***SCREENSHOT OF DISCUSSION MESSAGE***

A discussion message's most important fields are author and body. You can also set a title if you need to.

We've written an example integration for a polling app, and the source code is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/flowdock/flowdock-example-integration). The app uses most of the features mentioned here. It updates Flowdock with new polls and votes, has a discussion integration, and even allows users to vote directly from Flowdock.

## Authentication

Flowdock uses OAuth 2.0 for authentication. There are dozens of libraries available that remove the pain in implementing OAuth for your app.

For a simple example, take a look at [script that handles authentication for testing purposes](https://github.com/flowdock/flowdock-example-integration/blob/master/flowdock-oauth.rb).

For a closer look at Flowdock's authentication, take a look at the [documentation](authentication).

## Publishing your integration

Once your integration is ready for prime time, make sure you've configured your app to look the way you, send an e-mail to support@flowdock.com. After reviewing it, we'll publish it and add it to our [integrations list](/integrations). We'll also be sure to mention it in our monthly newsletter.
